Doc: Upload the tutorial of "Build UOS from Clear Linux" (#1985)
projectacrn/acrn-hypervisor: doc/tutorials/building_uos_from_clearlinux.rst

                      "kernel-iot-lts2018",
                      "network-basic",
                      "os-core-update",
                      "os-core",
                      "openssh-server",
                      "sysadmin-basic"]
       }

   .. note::
      To generate the image with a specified version, 
      please modify the ``"Version"`` argument, 
      and we can set ``"Version": 26550`` instead of 
      ``"Version: latest"`` for example.
      
   Here we will use ``"Version": 26550`` for example, 
   and the image of UOS called ``uos.img`` will be generated 
   after successful installation. An example output log is:
   
   .. code-block:: none
   
      Reading configuration
      Validating configuration
      Creating virtual disk
      Creating partitions
      Mapping loop device
      Creating file systems
      Setting up mount points
      Starting swupd. May take several minutes
      Installing 9 bundles (and dependencies)...
      Verifying version 26550
      Downloading packs...
        
      Extracting emacs pack for version 26550
      
      Extracting vim pack for version 26550
      ...
      Cleaning up
      Successful installation
      

> #. Reboot and select "The ACRN Service OS" to boot, as shown below:

Reviewer: I can see a case where many create the UOS images on a Clear Linux dev machine and then transfer the `img` over to the target system. We don't want/need to make such instructions explicit but changing the text as suggested makes it clearer that while the Clear Linux could have been any system, the user should now move over to the target system to run the resulting `img` file.

```suggestion
#. On your target device, boot the system and select "The ACRN Service OS", as shown below:
```

.. _build UOS from Clearlinux:

Building UOS from Clear Linux
#############################

This document builds on the :ref:`getting_started`, 
and explains how to build UOS from Clear Linux.
      
Build UOS image in Clear Linux native
*************************************

In order to build out the image of UOS, 
please follow these steps in Clear Linux native:

> #. In Clear Linxu native, please install ``ister`` at first, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. In Clear Linux native, install ``ister`` (a template-based
   installer for Linux),
```

>    ``ister`` is a template based installer for linux, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

>    which is inclued in the bundle ``os-installer`` in Clear Linux.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   included in the Clear Linux bundle ``os-installer``.
```

   For more information about ``ister``, 
   please visit https://github.com/bryteise/ister.

   .. code-block:: none

>       # sudo swupd bundle-add os-installer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      $ sudo swupd bundle-add os-installer
```

>       # sudo swupd bundle-add os-installer

Reviewer: The shell prompt indicates you are already root, so no need to use sudo.

On a side note, I'm also thinking that we should eliminate the shell prompt in all of our code-blocks, the fact it's in there prevents people from doing a copy-paste of the instructions. @dbkinder , thoughts?

   
#. After installation is complete, use ``ister.py`` to 
   generate the image for UOS with the configuration in 
   ``uos-image.json``:

   .. code-block:: none
   

>       # cd ~   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      $ cd ~   
```

>       # sudo ister.py -t uos-image.json

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      $ sudo ister.py -t uos-image.json
```

>    An example of the configuration file ``uos-image.json`` 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Here is an example of the ``uos-image.json`` configuration file:
```

>    is shown as below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

   .. code-block:: none
   
      {
          "DestinationType" : "virtual",
          "PartitionLayout" : [ { "disk" : "uos.img",
                                  "partition" : 1,
                                  "size" : "512M",
                                  "type" : "EFI" },
                                { "disk" : "uos.img",
                                  "partition" : 2,

>                                   "size" : "32M",

Reviewer: That seems really low for a swap partition, why is it so small?

Reviewer 3: yes,  looks like swap partition really small, with the UP2 as the example, it has minimal 2G memory, and supposing BIOS, ACRN hypervisor and SOS consumed more than 50%, at lease mem <1G  is for UOS,  why not define swap partition with 1G ?

                                  "type" : "linux" } ],
          "FilesystemTypes" : [ { "disk" : "uos.img",
                                  "partition" : 1,
                                  "type" : "vfat" },
                                { "disk" : "uos.img",
                                  "partition" : 2,
                                  "type" : "swap" },
                                { "disk" : "uos.img",
                                  "partition" : 3,
                                  "type" : "ext4" } ],
          "PartitionMountPoints" : [ { "disk" : "uos.img",
                                       "partition" : 1,
                                       "mount" : "/boot" },
                                     { "disk" : "uos.img",
                                       "partition" : 3,
                                       "mount" : "/" } ],
          "Version": "latest",
          "Bundles": ["bootloader",
                      "editors",
                      "kernel-iot-lts2018",
                      "network-basic",
                      "os-core-update",
                      "os-core",
                      "openssh-server",

>                       "software-defined-cockpit",

Reviewer 3: for the ACRN open source community,  gnome desktop is our preferred option to install, so can we please remove this bundle - software-defined-cockpit" from bundle installation list?

                      "sysadmin-basic"]
       }

   .. note::
      To generate the image with a specified version, 

>       please modify with the ``"Version"`` argument, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      please modify the ``"Version"`` argument, 
```

>       and we can set ``"Version": 26550`` for example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      and we can set ``"Version": 26550`` instead of ``"Version: latest"`` for example.
```

>       and we can set ``"Version": 26550`` for example.

Reviewer: I would add a note here to make it explicit that `"latest"` *must* be in quotes while if you use a version number it must *not* be in quotes.

   Here we will use ``"Version": 26550`` for example, 

>    and the image of UOS called ``uos.img`` will be generated 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   and the UOS image called ``uos.img`` will be generated 
```

>    after successful installation. It will output log as shown as below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   after successful installation. An example output log is:
```

   
   .. code-block:: none
   
      Reading configuration
      Validating configuration
      Creating virtual disk
      Creating partitions
      Mapping loop device
      Creating file systems
      Setting up mount points
      Starting swupd. May take several minutes
      Installing 9 bundles (and dependencies)...
      Verifying version 26550
      Downloading packs...
        
      Extracting emacs pack for version 26550
      
      Extracting vim pack for version 26550
      ...
      Cleaning up
      Successful installation
      
#. Reboot and select "The ACRN Service OS" to boot, as shown below:

   .. code-block:: console
      :emphasize-lines: 1
      
      => The ACRN Service OS
      Clear Linux OS for Intel Architecture (Clear-linux-iot-lts2018-4.19.0-19)
      Clear Linux OS for Intel Architecture (Clear-linux-iot-lts2018-sos-4.19.0-19)
      Clear Linux OS for Intel Architecture (Clear-linux-native.4.19.1-654)
      EFI Default Loader
      Reboot Into Firmware Interface

Start the User OS (UOS)
***********************

#. Mount the UOS image and check the UOS kernel:

   .. code-block:: none

>       # losetup -f -P --show ~/uos.img

Reviewer 2: The UOS starts up as root, right?  So the ``#`` prompt is correct.

      # mount /dev/loop0p3 /mnt

      # ls -l /mnt/usr/lib/kernel/

      cmdline-4.19.0-26.iot-lts2018
      config-4.19.0-26.iot-lts2018
      default-iot-lts2018 -> org.clearlinux.iot-lts2018.4.19.0-26
      install.d
      org.clearlinux.iot-lts2018.4.19.0-26
   

> #. And you need to adjust the ``/usr/share/acrn/samples/nuc/launch_uos.sh`` 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Adjust the ``/usr/share/acrn/samples/nuc/launch_uos.sh`` 
```

   script to match your installation. 
   These are the couple of lines you need to modify:

   .. code-block:: none
   
      -s 3,virtio-blk,~/uos.img \
      -k /mnt/usr/lib/kernel/default-iot-lts2018  \

   .. note::

>       UOS image ``uos.img`` stored in the directory ``~/``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      UOS image ``uos.img`` is in the directory ``~/``
```

>       and UOS kernel ``default-iot-lts2018`` stored ``/mnt/usr/lib/kernel/``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      and UOS kernel ``default-iot-lts2018`` is in ``/mnt/usr/lib/kernel/``.
```

   
#. You are now all set to start the User OS (UOS):

   .. code-block:: none
   

>       sudo /usr/share/acrn/samples/nuc/launch_uos.sh

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      $ sudo /usr/share/acrn/samples/nuc/launch_uos.sh
```
